To understand graph databases, let's look at a simple example.
Suppose you like a particular movie.
You may know some other people who like the movie as well,
and there may be other people you don't know who also like the movie.
A social networking graph could look at multiple data points and
relationships in determining what or who you may want to connect
with based on your current connections.
This pattern of using nodes and edges versus tables and keys allows
easier exploration of patterns than having to create nested queries
and complex joins in a relational database.
Graph databases are a good fit for creating knowledge or identity graphs,
fraud detection, recommendation engines, and,
of course, social networking to name just a few.
Amazon Neptune is a fully managed graph database that enables you to
query billions of relationships in milliseconds. Like the other managed
services we've seen, you get high availability with multiple read
replicas that can scale up and down, instance monitoring and repair,
fault tolerant, self‑healing storage,
continuous incremental backups with point‑in‑time restore, and encryption.
Neptune also supports open graph APIs for both Gremlin and Sparkle so you can use existing tools and code when migrating to Neptune.